---
title: Deployment
---
# Deployment with uSync

uSync is designed to work seemlessly with Umbraco deployments and comes with a number of diffrent settings that will help you to deploy your Umbraco site and settings how you want. 

## Source control changes
by default uSync will save all the changes you make in Umbraco to disk, *(in the uSync folder)*

:::tip 
The `ExportOnSave` setting is on by default so every change made in development will be saved to disk. If you don't want to include changes to content [change this value to 'settings' in your appsettings.json file](../reference/config#usyncsettings)
:::

This means if a developer makes any changes in Umbraco and then checks in their code into Source control those changes will be included in the usync folder within the code repository.

## Import on startup

The Import on starup settings lets you define how uSync behaves when your site starts up.

For example to import settings when the site starts up : 

```json
"uSync" : {
    "Settings" : {
        "ImportAtStartup": "Settings"
    }
}
```

When set uSync will run though the import process as part of a site's startup process. meaning that any changes are imported as soon as possible in the process.

### Once/Stop files 
Sometime you might only want uSync to import at startup the first time it boots from a deployment, this can be done by placing a 'usync.once' file in the root of the uSync/v9 folder. 

When uSync sees this file it will run an import but then replace the file with a usync.stop file which stops import at startup process regardless of settings

[Once/Stop documentation](../key_topics/once)

## First Boot 
First boot is a special setting that can control how usync behaves the very first time a site boot up.

With first boot, you can define how a site will seed its settings, this is great if you want to spin up a new site and want it to take certain settings/content the first time it starts. 

[First boot documentation](../key_topics/firstboot)

## uSync.CommandLine

The uSync Command line is a tool that allows you to run commands on a remote Umbraco site from your local command line console. 

You can for example start a uSync import from the uSync command line, 

```bash
usync run uSync-import -s https://my-server.com/umbraco -user user@jumoo.co.uk -pass somepassword 
```

You can use the uSync.Command line as part of your deployment pipeline. 

you might for example want to wait for Umbraco to have booted up before running an import. 

```
uSync ping -s https://my-server.com/umbraco -user user@jumoo.co.uk -pass somepassword 

uSync run uSync-import -s https://my-server.com/umbraco -user user@jumoo.co.uk -pass somepassword 
```




