---
title: Publisher config
---
# uSync.Publisher Config

for uSync 9 the majority of the uSync publisher config now lives in the Database, and can be synced between your servers via the dashboard.

## AppId/AppKey

For your servers to communicate securely they will need to have a shared AppId and AppKey, these values have to be placed in the `appsettings.json` file on each server. 

:::tip
When you first open up the uSync.Publisher dashboard, uSync will prompt you to create an AppId and AppKey. you can cut and paste the JSON from that dialog box directly into your appsettings.json file.
:::

```json
{
  "uSync": {
    "Publisher": {
      "Settings": {
        "IncomingEnabled": true,
        "AppId": "****************",
        "AppKey": "****************"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
## appsettings.json config File

While most settings are now stored in the DB, there are a few settings you can control per server via the `appsettings.json` file:

```json
{
  "uSync": {
    "Publisher": {
      "Settings": {
        "IncomingEnabled": true,
        "OutgoingEnabled": true, 
        "AppId": "****************",
        "AppKey": "****************",
        "Publisher": "Realtime",
        "CleanReports": true,
        "PageSize": 50,
        "AdditionalFolders": "",
        "SystemFolders" : "",
        "SystemExclusions" : "",
        "FileReplacements" : ""
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Property | Value | Note
---------|-------|-------
incomingEnabled | true/false | Turns this server on/off for incoming requests. With this setting off the server cannot be published to or pulled from.
outgoingEnabled | true/false | Enables/disables this server sending publish requests. With this setting off, you will not see the publish/pull options in Umbraco.
AppId | string | Application ID used alongside AppKey to sign and check any communication between instances.
AppKey | string | Key used to sign communications.
Publisher | string | The type of Publisher to use when pushing and pulling content.
CleanReports | true/false | Turns on/off the trimming of folders after the report stage (this makes imports quicker as less is rechecked).
PageSize | 50 | How many items are in a 'page' of data sent between servers
AdditionalFolders | ~/Views, ~/wwwroot/css, ~/wwwroot/scripts | List of folders to include.
SystemFolders |  | What folders are considered system folders (e.g bin).
SystemExclusions | ~/bin,~/app_plugins | Things to exclude from system.
FileReplacements |  | Things that might be replaced inside a file. 