---
title: Deployment
---
# Deployment With uSync

uSync is designed to work seamlessly with Umbraco deployments. It comes with a number of settings that will help you to deploy your Umbraco site however you want. 

## Source Control Changes
By default uSync will save all the changes you make in Umbraco to disk in the uSync folder.

:::tip 
The `ExportOnSave` setting is on by default, so every change made in development will be saved to disk. If you don't want to include changes to content you can [change this value to 'settings' in your appsettings.json file.](../reference/config)
:::

This means if a developer makes any changes in Umbraco and then checks their code into source control those changes will be included in the uSync folder within the code repository.

## Import at Startup

The `ImportAtStartup` setting lets you define how uSync behaves when your site starts up.

For example, to import settings when the site starts up you can use: 

```json
"uSync" : {
    "Settings" : {
        "ImportAtStartup": "Settings"
    }
}
```

When set, uSync will run though the import process as part of a site's startup. Any changes are then imported as soon as possible.

### Once/Stop Files 
Sometimes you might only want uSync to import at startup the first time it boots from a deployment. This can be done by placing a 'usync.once' file in the root of the uSync/v9 folder. 

When uSync sees this file it will run an import but then replace the file with a usync.stop file which stops import at startup process regardless of settings

[Once/Stop documentation](../reference/Fundementals/once)

## First Boot 🥇🥾
First Boot is a setting that controls how uSync behaves the very first time a site boots up.

With First Boot, you can define how a site will seed its settings. This is great if you want your new site to take certain settings/content the first time it starts. 

[First Boot documentation](../reference/Fundementals/firstboot)

## uSync.CommandLine

The uSync Command Line is a tool that allows you to run commands on a remote Umbraco site from your local command line console. 

You can, for example, start a uSync import from the uSync command line. 

```bash
usync run uSync-import -s https://my-server.com/umbraco -user user@jumoo.co.uk -pass somepassword 
```

You can also use the uSync.CommandLine as part of your deployment pipeline. 

You might, for example, want to wait for Umbraco to have booted up before running an import. 

```
uSync ping -s https://my-server.com/umbraco -user user@jumoo.co.uk -pass somepassword 

uSync run uSync-import -s https://my-server.com/umbraco -user user@jumoo.co.uk -pass somepassword 
```




